new file:   SDK v2 migration guide.md (#2710)
Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp: SDK v2 migration guide.md

> # SDK v2 Migration guide

Reviewer: Either "Title Case" or "Sentence case"
```suggestion
# SDK v2 migration guide
```

This document outlines the changes made from this library's 1.X.X releases to its 2.X.X releases. Since this is

> a major version upgrade, there are a number of breaking changes that will affect your ability to compile. Provided here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a major version upgrade, there are a number of breaking changes that will affect the ability to compile. Provided here
```

> are outlines of the notable breaking changes as well as a mapping from v1 APIs to v2 APIs to aid you in migrating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are outlines of the notable breaking changes as well as a mapping from v1 APIs to v2 APIs to aid migrating.
```

> ## Table Of Contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table of contents
```

 - [Why the v1 SDK is being replaced](#Why-the-v1-sdk-is-being-replaced)
 - [What will happen to the v1 SDK](#What-will-happen-to-the-v1-sdk)

>  - [Migration Guide](#migration-guide)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Migration guide](#migration-guide)
```

>    - [IoT Hub Device Client](#iot-hub-device-client)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [IoT hub device client](#iot-hub-device-client)
```

>    - [IoT Hub Service Client](#iot-hub-service-client)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [IoT hub service client](#iot-hub-service-client)
```

>    - [DPS Device Client](#dps-device-client)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [Device Provisioning service device client](#dps-device-client)
```

>    - [DPS Service Client](#dps-service-client)

Reviewer: Same here.

>    - [Security Provider Clients](#security-provider-clients)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [Security provider clients](#security-provider-clients)
```

   - [Deps](#deps)
 - [Frequently asked questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

## Why the v1 SDK is being replaced

There are a number of reasons why the Azure IoT SDK team chose to do a major version revision. Here are a few of the more important reasons:
  - [Upcoming certificate changes](./upcoming_certificate_changes_readme.md) dictated that the SDK needed to stop pinning on a specific IoT Hub public certificate and start reading certificates from the device certificate store.
  - Several 3rd party dependencies (Bouncycastle, Azure Storage SDK, TODO: other 3rd party dependencies) were becoming harder to carry due to security concerns and they could only be removed by removing or alterring existing APIs.

>   - Many existing client classes (RegistryManager, DeviceTwin, DeviceMethod, ServiceClient, etc.) were confusingly named and contained methods that weren't always consistent with the client's assumed responsibilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Consolidate IoT hub service clients and rename to reflect the items or operations they support. Many existing client classes (RegistryManager, ServiceClient, etc.) were confusingly named and contained methods that weren't always consistent with the client's assumed responsibilities.
```

>   - Many existing clients had a mix of standard constructors (```new DeviceClient(...)```) and static builder constructors (```DeviceClient.createFromSecurityProvider(...)```) that caused some confusion among users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Many existing clients had a mix of standard constructors (```new DeviceClient(...)```) and static builder methods (```DeviceClient.CreateFromConnectionString(...)```) that caused some confusion among users. The factory methods have been removed and the addition of constructors in clients enables unit testing.
```

>   - Many existing clients had a mix of standard constructors (```new DeviceClient(...)```) and static builder methods (```DeviceClient.CreateFromConnectionString(...)```) that caused some confusion among users. The factory methods have been removed and the addition of constructors in clients enables unit testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Many existing clients had a mix of standard constructors (`new DeviceClient(...)`) and static builder methods (`DeviceClient.CreateFromConnectionString(...)`) that caused some confusion among users. The factory methods have been removed and the addition of constructors in clients enables unit testing.
```

Reviewer: I don't know why there are triple back ticks. They aren't needed to show as "code".

>   - ```DeviceClient``` and ```ModuleClient``` had unneccessarily different method names for the same operations (```deviceClient.startDeviceTwin(...)``` vs ```moduleClient.startTwin(...)``` TODO: verify this issue exists in c#) that could be easily unified for consistency.

Reviewer: I'd just remove this. I don't think it applied to us. As we enumerate the list of breaking changes, we can update the overview list.

>   - ```DeviceClient``` and ```ModuleClient``` had many asynchronous methods whose naming did not reflect that they were asynchronous. This led to some users calling these methods as though they were synchronous.

Reviewer: Does not apply to .NET.

## What will happen to the v1 SDK

> We have released [one final LTS version](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-java/releases/tag/2022-03-04) of the v1 SDK that

Reviewer: Big TODO here. I'd remove the URL for now (it is inaccurate).

we will support like any other LTS release (security bug fixes, some non-security bug fixes as needed), but users are still encouraged
to migrate to v2 when they have the chance. For more details on LTS releases, see [this document](./readme.md#long-term-support-lts).

> ## Migration Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migration guide
```

**** Proxy settings are now set at DeviceClient constructor time in the optional ClientOptions parameter,

#### ModuleClient

| V1 class#method                                                                                                               | Changed? | Equivalent V2 class#method                                                                                                   |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

#### Other notable breaking changes

TODO: do these apply to C#?
- Trust certificates are read from the physical device's trusted root certification authorities certificate store rather than from source.
  - Users are expected to install the required public certificates into this certificate store if they are not present already.
  - See [this document](./upcoming_certificate_changes_readme.md) for additional context on which certificates need to be installed.

>   - For most users, no action is needed here since IoT Hub uses the [DigiCert Global G2 CA root](https://global-root-g2.chain-demos.digicert.com/info/index.html) certificate which is already installed on most devices.

Reviewer: Remove

Reviewer: and the rest

- Reduce default SAS token time to live from 1 year to 1 hour for security purposes.

### Security Provider Clients

TODO: verify for c#
Breaking changes:
- Trust certificates are read from the physical device's trusted root certification authorities certificate store rather than from source.
  - Users are expected to install the required public certificates into this certificate store if they are not present already.
  - See [this document](./upcoming_certificate_changes_readme.md) for additional context on which certificates need to be installed.
  - For most users, no action is needed here since IoT Hub uses the [DigiCert Global G2 CA root](https://global-root-g2.chain-demos.digicert.com/info/index.html) certificate which is already installed on most devices.
- Users of the X509 SecurityProvider are expected to pass in the parsed certificates and keys as Java security primitives rather than as strings.
  - See [this sample](./provisioning/provisioning-samples/provisioning-X509-sample) for a demonstration on how to create these Java security primitives from strings.
  

## Frequently Asked Questions

Question:
> What do I gain by upgrading to the 2.X.X release?

Answer:

> > You get a smaller set of dependencies which makes for a lighter SDK overall. You also get a more concise and clear API surface. 
> > Lastly, and most importantly, you get an SDK that is decoupled from a particular IoT hub and Device Provisioning 
> > Service public certificate. This makes these versions more future proof since they aren't tied to a certificate
> > that will be changed within a few years and may be changed again beyond then. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A smaller set of dependencies which makes for a lighter SDK overall, a more concise and clearer API surface, and unit testability.
```

Question:
> Will the 1.X.X releases still be supported in any way?

Answer:

> > We will continue to support the long term support releases of the 1.X.X SDK for their lifespans, but we will not bring 
> > newer features to the 1.X.X SDK. Users who want access to the upcoming features are encouraged to upgrade to the 2.X.X SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The long-term support (LTS) releases of the 1.X.X SDK will continue to have support during their lifespans.
> Newer features in the services will not be brought into to the v 1.X.X SDKs. Users are encouraged to upgrade to the 2.X.X SDK for all the best feature support, stability, and bug fixes.
```

> Question:

Reviewer: Remove

> After upgrading, when I try to open my client, I get an exception like:
> ```
> TODO: add exception
> ```

Answer:
> TODO: add solution

Question:
> If the SDK now reads certificates from my device's trusted root certification authorities certificate store, does it also read any private keys that I have installed on my device?

Answer:
TODO: does this apply to c#
> No. This SDK only reads the public certificates from your device's trusted root certification authorities certificate store. 
>
> For x509 authenticated connections, you will need to construct the SSLContext with your trusted certificates and private keys and provide it to the SDK.

> > See [this sample](./iothub/device/samples/how%20to%20guides/X509DeviceCertWithChainSample/) for an example of how to construct an SSLContext instance with your public certificates and private keys.

Reviewer: Remove

Question:

> > Can I still upload files to Azure Storage using this SDK now that deviceClient.uploadToBlobAsync() has been removed? (TODO: does this apply to c#?)

Reviewer: Update API name

Answer:
> Yes, you will still be able to upload files to Azure Storage after upgrading. 
>
> This SDK allows you to get the necessary credentials to upload your files to Azure Storage, but you will need to bring in the Azure Storage SDK as a dependency to do the actual file upload step. 
> 
> For an example of how to do file upload after upgrading, see [this sample](./iothub/device/samples/getting%20started/FileUploadSample/).

Question:
> I was using a deprecated API that was removed in the 2.X.X upgrade, what should I do?

Answer:
> The deprecated API in the 1.X.X version documents which API you should use instead of the deprecated API. This guide
also contains a mapping from v1 API to equivalent v2 API that should tell you which v2 API to use.

Question:

> > After upgrading, some of my catch statements no longer work because the API I was using no longer declares that it throws that exception. Do I still need to catch something there?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> After upgrading, some of catch handlers no longer work because the API I was using no longer declares that it throws that exception. Do I still need to catch something there?
```

Answer:

> > In this upgrade, we removed any thrown exceptions from our APIs if the API never threw that exception. Because of that, you are safe to simply remove
> > the catch clause in cases like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The SDK has an updated exception strategy. Please refer to the documentation comments on each API where the relevant exceptions are documented.
```

Question:
TODO: verify for c#
> What if I don't want this SDK to read from my device's trusted root certification authorities certificate store? Is there a way to override this behavior?

Answer:
> Yes, there is a way to override this behavior. For a given client, there is an optional parameter that allows you to provide
> the SSLContext to the client rather than allow the client to build the SSLContext for you from the trusted root certification 
> authorities certificate store. In this SSLContext, you have complete control over what certificates to trust. 
>

> > For an example of injecting your own SSLContext, see [this sample](./iothub/device/samples/how%20to%20guides/X509DeviceCertWithChainSample/).

Reviewer: Irrelevant. Check with Tim.

Question:
> Does this major version bump bring any changes to what platforms this SDK supports?

Answer:

> > No. If you are using a platform that is supported in our 1.X.X releases, then your platform will still be supported in our 2.X.X releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> These SDKs now only target .NET Standard 2.0, which is usable by all modern .NET targets, including .NET 6.0.
> The SDKs are tested with [this matrix](./supported_platforms.md).
```

Question:

> > Is the v2 library backwards compatible in any way?

Reviewer: Ask Tim what this mean, especially WRT .NET.

Answer:

> > No. Several APIs have been added to v2 that are not present in v1. On top of that, several APIs in v2 are expected to behave differently than they did in v1.

Reviewer: Link to semver rules. Look above in the migration section.
